content/home/about.md, before:

+++
# About/Biography widget.
widget = "about"
active = true
date = 2016-04-20T00:00:00

# Order that this section will appear in.
weight = 5

# List your academic interests.
[interests]
  interests = [
    "Biostatistics",
    "High-throughput biology",
    "Medicine",
    "Public health",
    "Human-data interaction"
  ]

# List your qualifications (such as academic degrees).
[[education.courses]]
  course = "PhD in Biostatistics"
  institution = "Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health"
  year = 2018

[[education.courses]]
  course = "BS in Biomedical Engineering, Applied Mathematics & Statistics"
  institution = "Johns Hopkins University"
  year = 2013
 
+++

# About me

I am an Assistant Professor of Statistics at [Macalester College](https://www.macalester.edu/) in the [Department of Mathematics, Statistics, and Computer Science](https://www.macalester.edu/mscs/). My research interests lie in the application of statistics to study biology (particularly with high-throughput techonolgies), medicine, epidemiology, and public health. I am also interested in how humans interact with data in ways that impact analysis, understanding, and scientific communication.

I received my PhD in [biostatistics](http://www.biostat.jhsph.edu/) from the [Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health](https://www.jhsph.edu/) where I worked with [Kasper Daniel Hansen](http://www.hansenlab.org/) on statistical methodology for high-throughput biology and with [Jeff Leek](http://jtleek.com/) and [Leah Jager](https://www.jhsph.edu/faculty/directory/profile/2909/leah-r-jager) on understanding the role of human behavior in data analysis.

My last name is pronounced **mee-int**. A common mispronunciation that is quite understandable given the spelling is my-int. While this can be amusing from a computer science perspective, it is, nevertheless, incorrect!

Commit message:

Update CV, about, and talks

content/home/about.md, after:

+++
# About/Biography widget.
widget = "about"
active = true
date = 2016-04-20T00:00:00

# Order that this section will appear in.
weight = 5

# List your academic interests.
[interests]
  interests = [
    "High-throughput biology",
    "Medicine",
    "Public health",
    "Human-data interaction",
    "Causal inference"
  ]

# List your qualifications (such as academic degrees).
[[education.courses]]
  course = "PhD in Biostatistics"
  institution = "Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health"
  year = 2018

[[education.courses]]
  course = "BS in Biomedical Engineering, Applied Mathematics & Statistics"
  institution = "Johns Hopkins University"
  year = 2013
 
+++

# About me

I am an Assistant Professor of Statistics at [Macalester College](https://www.macalester.edu/) in the [Department of Mathematics, Statistics, and Computer Science](https://www.macalester.edu/mscs/). My research interests lie in the application of statistics to study biology (particularly with high-throughput techonolgies) and human health more broadly. Methodologically, I am interested in using causal inference tools to bridge findings from high-throughput technologies with information about health at the clinical and societal levels. Besides health and biology, I also have interests is human-data interaction: the investigation of how humans interact with data in ways that impact analysis, understanding, and scientific communication. I am also quite excited about graph databases and their ability to model rich, interconnected data (often textual). I am exploring ways to use them to model data in humanities disciplines.

I received my PhD in [biostatistics](http://www.biostat.jhsph.edu/) from the [Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health](https://www.jhsph.edu/) where I worked with [Kasper Daniel Hansen](http://www.hansenlab.org/) on statistical methodology for high-throughput biology and with [Jeff Leek](http://jtleek.com/) and [Leah Jager](https://www.jhsph.edu/faculty/directory/profile/2909/leah-r-jager) on understanding the role of human behavior in data analysis.

My last name is pronounced **mee-int**. A common mispronunciation that is quite understandable given the spelling is my-int. While this can be amusing from a computer science perspective, it is, nevertheless, incorrect!
